---
zotero-key: 4FSZ9P6C
zt-attachments:
  - "1850"
title: "Transcriptional Control by Premature Termination: A Forgotten Mechanism"
citekey: kamieniarz-gdula2019b
---
# Transcriptional Control by Premature Termination: A Forgotten Mechanism

[Zotero](zotero://select/library/items/4FSZ9P6C) 

> [!note] Page 553
> 
> Highlights PTT is widespread in metazoans. It can occur close to the TSS or further downstream in the gene body. PTT generates transcripts that, depending on the circumstances, are either rapidly degraded, or are stabilised by polyadenylation, thus contributing to transcriptome diversification. Stable premature transcripts can have independent functions as noncoding (nc)RNA or mRNA encoding proteins with different properties compared with those generated by the full-length transcript. PTT can negatively regulate expression of the full-length transcript and especially controls genes encoding transcriptional regulators. Factors triggering PTT include not only canonical RNA 3′ processing and termination factors, but also other players. Many metazoan factors oppose PTT, thus limiting its damaging potential.
> ^PP5PQY2Aa8HQX6F8Pp1

> [!note] Page 554
> 
> PTT is also a well-recognised regulatory mechanism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mediated by the Nrd1–Nab3–Sen1 (NNS) complex.
> 
> ---
> Yeast의 PTT는 NNS complex에 의해서 일어난다
> ^Q76KPCCFa8HQX6F8Pp2

> [!note] Page 554
> 
> PTT in S. cerevisiae might not be limited to the NNS pathway.
> ^AIFBE5GUa8HQX6F8Pp2

> [!note] Page 560
> 
> In budding yeast, premature termination is tightly linked with RNA degradation by the nuclear exosome
> ^6IVQWJUZa8HQX6F8Pp8
