---
type: Zotero Literature Note
publish-year: 2020 
created: <% tp.file.creation_date("YYYY-MM-DD")%>
PARA:
  - Archive
tags:
  - zotero
  - note/zotero
---
## Notes
%% begin notes %%
- Critique
	- Pros
	- Cons
- How is it relevant to my research?
	- Relevant_Topic::
	- Use::
things to add each time you import
things to add each time you import
%% end notes %%

> [!Cite]  
> Bae, H. J., Dubarry, M., Jeon, J., Soares, L. M., Dargemont, C., Kim, J., Geli, V., & Buratowski, S. (2020). The Set1 N-terminal domain and Swd2 interact with RNA polymerase II CTD to recruit COMPASS. _Nature Communications_, _11_(1), Article 1. [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-16082-2](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-16082-2)

>[!Synth]  
>**Contribution**::

>[!md]  
> **Author**:: Bae, Hyun Jin<br>  
> **Author**:: Dubarry, Marion<br>  
> **Author**:: Jeon, Jongcheol<br>  
> **Author**:: Soares, Luis M.<br>  
> **Author**:: Dargemont, Catherine<br>  
> **Author**:: Kim, Jaehoon<br>  
> **Author**:: Geli, Vincent<br>  
> **Author**:: Buratowski, Stephen<br>  
>  
> **Title**:: The Set1 N-terminal domain and Swd2 interact with RNA polymerase II CTD to recruit COMPASS  
> **Year**:: 2020  
> **Citekey**:: @bae2020  
>**itemType**:: journalArticle  
>**Journal**:: *Nature Communications*  
>**Volume**:: 11  
>**Issue**:: 1  
>  
>  
>  
> **Pages**:: 2181  
>**DOI**:: 10.1038/s41467-020-16082-2  
>

> [!LINK]  
>  
> [Full Text PDF](file://C:\Users\kill9\Zotero\storage\ACAC64U3\Bae%20등%20-%202020%20-%20The%20Set1%20N-terminal%20domain%20and%20Swd2%20interact%20with%20.pdf).
> [to Zotero](zotero://select/library/items/5H27ARU6)

> [!Abstract]  
>  
> Methylation of histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) by Set1/COMPASS occurs co-transcriptionally, and is important for gene regulation. Set1/COMPASS associates with the RNA polymerase II C-terminal domain (CTD) to establish proper levels and distribution of H3K4 methylations. However, details of CTD association remain unclear. Here we report that the Set1 N-terminal region and the COMPASS subunit Swd2, which interact with each other, are both needed for efficient CTD binding in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Moreover, a single point mutation in Swd2 that affects its interaction with Set1 also impairs COMPASS recruitment to chromatin and H3K4 methylation. A CTD interaction domain (CID) from the protein Nrd1 can partially substitute for the Set1 N-terminal region to restore CTD interactions and histone methylation. However, even when Set1/COMPASS is recruited via the Nrd1 CID, histone H2B ubiquitylation is still required for efficient H3K4 methylation, indicating that H2Bub acts after the initial recruitment of COMPASS to chromatin.  
>



## Annotations##### meta data
#Biochemistry, #Chromatin, #Histone-post-translational-modifications, #Transcription, #Molecular-biology

%% Import Date: 2024-01-12T10:38:05.552+09:00 %%
