1. Variation amone genomes
		1. learn object
			1. Estimate how many DNA polymorphisms differectiate the genomes of any two people
			2. Explain why most of these DNA polymorphisms are not responsivle for the phenotypic differences between people.
			3. Differentiate among different classes of DNA cariants in terms of their structures, mechanisms of formation and frequency in genomes
			4. A wild-type human genome seqeunce does not exist
		2. Most polymorphisms do not influence phenotype.
		3. Four categories of genetic variation
			1. Single nucleotide polymorphisms
				1. size : 1bp / frequency 1per 1kb
			2. Deletion-insertion ploymorphisms
				1. size : 1~100bp / frequency 1per 10kb
			3. Simple seqeunce repeats
				1. size : 1~10bp repeat unit / frequency 1per 30kb
			4. Copy numver variants
				1. size : 10bp ~ 1Mbp / frequency 1per 3Mb
		4. the origin of human SNPs is determined by comparison to other speacies
		5. unequal crossing-over produces new alleles of copy number variants
		6. Olfactory receptor genes vary greatly in copy number between human populations
		7. Copynumber variation of Amy1 Gene
	3. Genotyping a known disease-causing mutaiton
		1. learn object
			1. Outline the steps by which the polymerase chain reaction(PCR) amplifies a specific region of a genome
			2. Describe how the seqeuncing of sizing of PCR products can elucidate genotypes
			3. Explain how PCR can be used to genotype fetuses in utero or embyos prior to implantation
			4. Determining genotype depends on isolating a gene and analyzing the alleles
				1. Polymerase chain reaction
		2. Two oligonucleotide primers define the target region
			1. F- / R- primer
		3. The three steps in each PCR amplification cycle
		4. Repeated amplification cycles amplifies the target DNA
		5. Exponential increase in the amount of target DNA during PCR
		6. Determining Genotype by seqeuncing PCR products
		7. Determinig genotype by PCR product size
			1. Target regions containg SSRs or DIPs can be amplified by PCR
			2. The PCR products vary in size
		8. Determinidng genotype by product size
			1. size variations can be detected by gel electrophoresis
		9. Analysis of the huntington disease locus by PCR
		10. Fetal and embryonic cells can be genotyped using PCR
			1. Prenatal genetic diagnosis
			2. preimplantation embryo diagnosis
		11. Preimplantation embryo diagnosis (산전태아진단)
		12. Sampling DNA variation in a genome
			1. Explain why a relatively small number of SSR loci are sufficient to provide a DNA fingerprint of an individual
			2. Describe how a DNA microarray is constructed and how to genotype millions of loci on this microarray
		13. Forensic DNA finger printing
		14. Multiplex PCR is used for DNA finger printing
		15. Short hybridzation probes can distinguish single-base mismatches
			1. Hybridization of short oligonucleotides to sample DNAs
				1. If there is no mismatch between probe and target, hybrid will be stable at high temperature
				2. If there is a mismatch between probe and target, hybrid will not be stable at high template
		16. Hybridization probes are used on microarrays for genotyping
		17. genomic DNA used to probe the ASO chip
		18. Fluorescent out put is proportional to the number of copies of each allele
	4. Positional cloning
		1. learning object
			1. Describe rhe process of positional clonign and how it allows mapping of disease-causing alleles
			2. Examine the limitations of pedigrss analysis in providing the information needed for positional cloning
			3. Explain how a lod score is obtained and what information it provides
			4. Discuss the conseqeunces of allelic heterogeneity, compound heterozyhosity, and locus heterogeneity
		2. positional cloning : from DNA markers to disease-causing genes 
			1. position cloning;
				1. object is to identify disease-causing genes by genetic linkage to polymorphic loci
		3. The steps involved in positional cloning
		4. An example of positional cloning
		5. Positional cloning has limitations
		6. Large family pedigree used to locate the Huntington disease gene
		7. The Lod score is a statisticla tool for studying linkage.
		8. genetic diseases can display allelic or locus heterogeneity
			1. Alleic heterogeneity (대립유전자 이질성)
				1. Compound heterozygote
			2. Locus heterogeneity (유전자좌 이질성)
		9. The era of whole-genome seqeuncing
			1. Describe a high-throughput, automated method by which millions od DNA templates my be seqeunced silmultaneously.
			2. Summeraize a sequence of investigative steps that can narrow the candidates for a sisease-causing variant
			3. Explain how databases that catalog sequence variation in many people can facilitate the diagnosis of genetic diseases
		10. Genome seqeuncing is becoming routine
			1. High-throughput or massively parallel seqeuncing(다량병행염기서열해석)
		11. Strategy for high-throughput DNA seqeuncing
		12. Genome seqeuncing reveals a sea of variation
			1. Each individual differs at > 3 million locations from the RefSeq human genome.
		13. SNP patterns in a rare dominant trait
		14. SNP patterns in a rare recessive trait 
		15. Pinpointing a disease gene requires a combination of approaches
		16. Pinpointing a sisease gene mat point to a treatment