1. Classical genetics as background
	1. similatities between parents and offspring: obvious
	2. But an understanding how heredity works; more rescent
2. What is a gene?
	1. A sequence of DNA or RNA which code for a molecule that has function
3. Maps and tour guides
	1. maps: tell us where things are in relation to other things
	2. Different types of maps
		1. linkage maps of genes
		2. banding patterns of chromosomes
		3. restriction maps
		4. DNA seqeunces
	3. Genes; entirely abstract entities
	4. organization of hereditary information : linear
	5. Complete sequences of genomes; culmination of the entire mapping enterprise
4. genetic maps
	1. determined from patterns of inheritance of phenotypic traits
	2. Mendle's gene concept: discrete and persist through a lineage
		1. dominant and recessive alleles
		2. homozygotes, heterozygotes
		3. segregation
		4. indepentdent segregation
5. linkage; 연관
6. Crossing over disrupts linkage
7. Linkage disequilibrium
	1. recombination rate: depends only on the structure of chromosomes of an dindividual
	2. in large interbreeding population and evert indicidual in the population has the same parental genotype
	3. How fast the randomization occurs depends on thje recombination rate
		1. in the short term, if recomvination is in frequent, the parental genotype AB/ab will continue to predominate
		2. deviation frome the 1:2:1 rate : linkage disequilibrium (LD)
	4. in the absence of LD, frequency of allelic cobinations; propotional to the products fo the frequencies of the individual alleles
		1. equalibirium value은 두 유전자 비율의 곱이다.
		2. equalibirium 상태일때 $$AB*ab = Ab*aB = A*B*a*b$$
		3. A measure of LD : $$ D = AB*Ab - aB*ab$$
	5. linkage and LD are closely related but distinct concepts
		1. Linkage: about the distribution of loci among chromosomes
		2. LD : about the distribution of allel patterns in populations
		3. Classical linkage maps involved markers no less than 1cM apart
8. Chromosome banding pattern maps
		1. banding patterns; visible features on chromosomes
		2. Karyotype: chromosome structures of an individual'
		3. Some individuals show karotype aberration by having aberrant chromosomes
9. Correlation between linkage maps and chromosome structure
	1. Chromosome abrrations : duplications, deletion. translocation, inversions
10. Applications to diagnosis of disease
	1. chromosome abnomalities : correlated with cancer
11. studies of evolutionary changes in karyotype
12. RFLP; restriction enzyme length polymorphism
13. Variable number of tandem repeats
14. Short tanderm repeat polymorphism (microsatellites)
	1. asos known as microsatellites of simple seqeunce repeats
	2. 2-5 bp repeat
	3. highly abundent
	4. More abundant distribution that VNTRs
15. DNA profiling
	1. also called DNA fingerprinting
	2. DNA evidence is more often valuavle in excluding a suspect
16. 13 polymorphic loci are useful DNA markers for forensic analysis
	1. Comparing DNA repeats
	2. Differing number of copies of the same repeat migrate at different speeds on a gel
17. CODIS
	1. the provavility that any two individuals have same thirteen markers is 1 in 250 trillion
18. population statistics is used to interpret DNA profiles
19. To catch A thief with a sneeze
20. Using DNA profiling to identify victims